@node ax_append_link_flags
@unnumberedsec ax_append_link_flags

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_APPEND_LINK_FLAGS([FLAG1 FLAG2 ...], [FLAGS-VARIABLE], [EXTRA-FLAGS], [INPUT])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

For every FLAG1, FLAG2 it is checked whether the linker works with the
flag.  If it does, the flag is added FLAGS-VARIABLE

If FLAGS-VARIABLE is not specified, the linker's flags (LDFLAGS) is
used. During the check the flag is always added to the linker's flags.

If EXTRA-FLAGS is defined, it is added to the linker's default flags
when the check is done.  The check is thus made with the flags: "LDFLAGS
EXTRA-FLAGS FLAG".  This can for example be used to force the linker to
issue an error when a bad flag is given.

INPUT gives an alternative input source to AC_COMPILE_IFELSE.

NOTE: This macro depends on the AX_APPEND_FLAG and AX_CHECK_LINK_FLAG.
Please keep this macro in sync with AX_APPEND_COMPILE_FLAGS.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_append_link_flags.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_append_link_flags.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_append_link_flags.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Maarten Bosmans @email{mkbosmans@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
