@node ax_create_generic_config
@unnumberedsec ax_create_generic_config

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CREATE_GENERIC_CONFIG [(PACKAGEnlibs [, VERSION])]
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Creates a generic PACKAGE-config file that has all the things that you
want, hmm, well, at least it has --cflags, --version, --libs. Ahhm, did
you see ax_path_generic in the autoconf-archive? ;-)

this macros saves you all the typing for a pkg-config.in script, you
don't even need to distribute one along. Place this macro in your
configure.ac, et voila, you got one that you want to install.

oh, btw, if the first arg looks like "mylib -lwhat' then it will go to
be added to the --libs, and mylib is extracted.

the defaults: $1 = $PACKAGE $LIBS $2 = $VERSION there is also an
AC_SUBST(GENERIC_CONFIG) that will be set to the name of the file that
we did output in this macro. Use as:

@smallexample
 install-exec-local:    install-generic-config
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 install-generic-config:
    $(mkinstalldirs) $(DESTDIR)$(bindir)
    $(INSTALL_SCRIPT) @@GENERIC_CONFIG@@ $(DESTDIR)$(bindir)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_create_generic_config.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_create_generic_config.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_create_generic_config.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
