@node ax_cflags_sun_option
@unnumberedsec ax_cflags_sun_option

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CFLAGS_SUN_OPTION (optionflag [,[shellvar][,[A][,[NA]]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

AX_CFLAGS_SUN_OPTION(+xtreme) would show a message as like "checking
CFLAGS for sun/cc +xtreme ... yes" and adds the optionflag to CFLAGS if
it is understood. You can override the shellvar-default of CFLAGS of
course. The order of arguments stems from the explicit macros like
AX_CFLAGS_WARN_ALL.

The cousin AX_CXXFLAGS_SUN_OPTION would check for an option to add to
CXXFLAGS - and it uses the autoconf setup for C++ instead of C (since it
is possible to use different compilers for C and C++).

The macro is a lot simpler than any special AX_CFLAGS_* macro (or
ax_cxx_rtti.m4 macro) but allows to check for arbitrary options.
However, if you use this macro in a few places, it would be great if you
would make up a new function-macro and submit it to the ac-archive.

@smallexample
 - $1 option-to-check-for : required ("-option" as non-value)
 - $2 shell-variable-to-add-to : CFLAGS (or CXXFLAGS in the other case)
 - $3 action-if-found : add value to shellvariable
 - $4 action-if-not-found : nothing
@end smallexample

note: in earlier versions, $1-$2 were swapped. We try to detect the
situation and accept a $2=~/-/ as being the old option-to-check-for.

see also: AX_CFLAGS_GCC_OPTION for the widely used original variant.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_cflags_sun_option.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_cflags_sun_option.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_cflags_sun_option.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
