@node ax_check_aligned_access_required
@unnumberedsec ax_check_aligned_access_required

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_ALIGNED_ACCESS_REQUIRED
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

While the x86 CPUs allow access to memory objects to be unaligned it
happens that most of the modern designs require objects to be aligned -
or they will fail with a buserror. That mode is quite known by
big-endian machines (sparc, etc) however the alpha cpu is little-
endian.

The following function will test for aligned access to be required and
set a config.h define HAVE_ALIGNED_ACCESS_REQUIRED (name derived by
standard usage). Structures loaded from a file (or mmapped to memory)
should be accessed per-byte in that case to avoid segfault type errors.

The function checks if unaligned access would ignore the lowest bit of
the address. If that happens or if the test binary crashes, aligned
access is required.

If cross-compiling, assume that aligned access is needed to be safe. Set
ax_cv_have_aligned_access_required=no to override that assumption.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_aligned_access_required.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_aligned_access_required.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_aligned_access_required.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
