@node ax_cond_with_level
@unnumberedsec ax_cond_with_level

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_COND_WITH_LEVEL(PACKAGE [,DEFAULT [,YESLEVEL]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Actually used after an AC_ARG_WITH(PKG,...) option-directive, where
AC_ARG_WITH is a part of the standard autoconf to define a `configure`
--with-PKG option.

This macros works almost like AC_COND_WITH(PACKAGE [,DEFAULT]), but the
definition is set to a numeric value. The level of a simple "yes" is
given (or assumed "2" if absent), otherwise the level can be given in
mnemonic names, being:

@smallexample
 1 = some
 2 = many
 3 = all
 4 = extra
 5 = extrasome more
 6 = extramany muchmore much
 7 = super everything
 8 = ultra experimental
 9 = insane
@end smallexample

this macro is most handily it making Makefile.in/Makefile.am that have a
set of with-level declarations, especially optimization-levels

the $withval shell-variable is set for further examination (it carries
the numeric value of the various mnemonics above)

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_cond_with_level.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_cond_with_level.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_cond_with_level.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
