@node ax_numeric_namedlevel
@unnumberedsec ax_numeric_namedlevel

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_NUMERIC_NAMEDLEVEL(VARNAME [,FROMVAR [,DEFAULT [,YESLEVEL]]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

The levelstring FROMVAR is expanded and checked for verbal names that
will map on to eight different levels - the VARNAME will receive this
numeric level where "all" maps to 7 (lower three bits set) higher levels
for 8 and 9 exist too. This macro is a nice helper to convert user input
of a --with-opt=level into a numeric form that can be simply pushed as a
#define like with AC_DEFINE:

@smallexample
 default YESLEVEL = 2 /* including unknown levelspec */
 default DEFAULT  = 0 /* when named level is empty */
 default FROMVAR  = VARNAME
@end smallexample

The DEFAULT value is used if the NAMED levelstring has become empty and
it is copied without further conversion - a default of "0" is used if
absent - identical to "no". A "yes" will be set to the YESLEVEL - and
note that "yes" has "2" as its default value not "1". (which comes from
its original use to set a "gcc -O2").

the mnemonic names are:

@smallexample
  9| insane |ultrasome|experimentalplus
  8| ultra  |ultra|experimental)
  7| all    |muchmore|somemanymore|manymoreplus
  6| most   |manymore|most)
  5| strict |somemore|almost
  4| more   |more
  3| extra  |manyplus|plusmuch|somemany|plusmany
  2| many   |many|much|(yes)
  1| some   |some|plus
@end smallexample

note that a level can be constructed of (some|plus) = bit-0, (many|much)
= bit-1, (more) = bit-2, (ultra|experimental) = bit-3 at least in a
left-to-right order, ie. plusmanymore=7

Example usage:

@smallexample
  AX_NUMERIC_NAMEDLEVEL(OPTLEVEL,with_optlevel,1,3)
  AC_DEFINE(OPTLEVEL)
  test "$GCC" = "yes" && CFLAGS="$CFLAGS -O$OPTLEVEL)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_numeric_namedlevel.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_numeric_namedlevel.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_numeric_namedlevel.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
