@node ax_prog_cp_s
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_cp_s

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_CP_S
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check how to make a copy by creating a symbolic link to the original -
it defines the variable CP_S for further use, which you should in fact
treat like it used to be with be LN_S. The actual value is assured to be
either LN_S (if the filesystem supports symbolic links) or CP (if the
filesystem does not know about symbolic links and you need a copy of
original file to have the same text in both places). In a gnu
environment it will simply set CP_S="cp -s" since the gnu "cp"-command
has the "-s" flag. You shall not try to use this command on directories
since it would require a "-r" in the case of a copy that is not
supported explicitly here. (I'm not sure if some "cp"-commands out there
would barf at usage of "-r" on a normal file).

Use CP_S to create a copy of read-only data - if your filesystem
supports it then a symbolic link is created - a process that is quicker
and space-saving. However, if the target fs does not support symbolic
links, just copy the data. Unlike ac_prog_ln_s this macro will never
fail to set the CP_S ac_subst to something that works.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_cp_s.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_cp_s.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_cp_s.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
