@node ax_patch_libtool_changing_cmds_ifs
@unnumberedsec ax_patch_libtool_changing_cmds_ifs

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PATCH_LIBTOOL_CHANGING_CMDS_IFS
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Do a `grep "^[a-z]*_cmds=" libtool` - these are "subroutines" encoded by
libtool.m4 into the generated libtool script. Since libtool assumes that
there is no subroutine-facility in the shell invoked, these are not
actually subroutines, but actually a "list of commands". This looks
correct, but the command separator is not ";" - it is "~", the tilde
character.

Now, grep again, look for `grep 'IFS="~"' libtool` and see that libtool
scripting uses a for-loop on the command-list, i.e for cmd in
$some_cmds. This works correctly when the IFS was modified, where IFS
stands for "input field separator" which is whitespace characters by
default.

The problem: I have some real-world filesystems where there are
directories using "~" inside of them, to be more to the point, it is a
change control management software that uses source repositories of the
form "path/master/project~version/src" and libtool has the tendency to
resolve any symlinks so that it will paste such path into the $_cmds
script when it gets evaluated a number of times.

This script is a workaround: I do not know why the ";" was not chosen as
the IFS, perhaps it has some weird interactions in some shells since it
is also the default record separator being one time bigger in context
than the argument separator. I have made good success however with using
"?" as the IFS, since there is no path-name that uses a question mark,
and there is no _cmds ever around that uses "?" for some thing.

Oh yes, there are some usages of "*" to match shell-wise at the output
file of some tool, so that might have triggered the choice to not use
"?" in the first place - but in real life it never occured that a _cmds
script was created that has gone to use "?". And so, this ac-macro
exchanges the s/~/?/g in configured _cmds variables and replaces all
occurences of s/IFS="~"/IFS="?"/ - and it all works smooth now.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_patch_libtool_changing_cmds_ifs.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_patch_libtool_changing_cmds_ifs.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_patch_libtool_changing_cmds_ifs.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
