@node ax_sys_largefile_sensitive
@unnumberedsec ax_sys_largefile_sensitive

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_SYS_LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check whether the current system is sensitive to -Ddefines making off_t
having different types/sizes. Automatically define a config.h symbol
LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE if that is the case, otherwise leave everything as
is.

This macro builds on top of AC_SYS_LARGEFILE to detect whether special
options are needed to make the code use 64bit off_t - in many setups
this will also make the code use 64bit off_t immediately.

The common use of a LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE config.h-define is to rename
exported functions, usually adding a 64 to the original function name.
Such renamings are only needed on systems being both (a) 32bit off_t by
default and (b) implementing large.file extensions (as for unix98).

a renaming section could look like this:

@smallexample
 #if defined LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE && _FILE_OFFSET_BITS+0 == 64
 #define zzip_open zzip_open64
 #define zzip_seek zzip_seek64
 #endif
@end smallexample

for libraries, it is best to take advantage of the prefix-config.h
macro, otherwise you want to export a renamed LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE in an
installed header file. -> see AX_PREFIX_CONFIG_H

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_sys_largefile_sensitive.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_sys_largefile_sensitive.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_sys_largefile_sensitive.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
