@node ax_subst_with
@unnumberedsec ax_subst_with

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_SUBST_WITH([varname])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

a very simple macro but also very helpful - the varname is usually the
one from an AC_ARG_ENABLE or AC_ARG_WITH option. it is transliterated
into uppercase and a prefix WITH_ and WITHOUT_ that are both _SUBSTed.

Only one of these is set to "#" while the other is empty. In other words
a call like AC_WITHNONE(enable-call) will create two SUBST-symbols as
WITH_ENABLE_CALL and WITHOUT_ENABLE_CALL. When the varname had been set
to something not "no" or "0" or ":" or "false" then it results in

@smallexample
 WITH_ENABLE_CALL="" ; WITHOUT_ENABLE_CALL="#"
@end smallexample

which you can use in your Makefile quite easily as if using an
AM_CONDITIONAL but which can be also parsed by normal make

USE = @@WITH_ENABLE_CALL@@ -Denabled USE = @@WITHOUT_ENABLE_CALL@@
-Dnot_enabled

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_subst_with.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_subst_with.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_subst_with.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
