@node ax_warning_default_aclocaldir
@unnumberedsec ax_warning_default_aclocaldir

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_WARNING_DEFAULT_ACLOCALDIR [(dirvariable [,[defsetting][,[A][,[N/A]]]])]
AX_ENABLE_DEFAULT_ACLOCALDIR [(dirvariable [,defsetting])]
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

print a warning message if the $(datadir)/aclocal directory is not in
the dirlist searched by the aclocal tool. This macro is useful if some
`make install` would target $(datadir)/aclocal to install an autoconf m4
file of your project to be picked up by other projects.

@smallexample
 default $1 dirvariable = aclocaldir
 default $2 defsetting  = $@{datadir@}/aclocal
 default $3 action = nothing to do
 default $4 action = warn the user about mismatch
@end smallexample

In the _WARNING_ variant, the defsetting is not placed in dirvariable
nor is it ac_subst'ed in any way. The default fail-action $4 is to send
a warning message to the user, and the default accept-action $3 is
nothing. It is expected that a Makefile is generated with
aclocaldir=$@{datadir@}/aclocal

The _ENABLE_ variant however will set not only the $aclocaldir shell var
of the script, but it is also AC-SUBST'ed on default - and furthermore a
configure option "--enable-default-aclocaldir" is provided. Only if that
option is set then $2 default is not set to the canonic default in the a
$prefix subpath but instead $2 default is set to the primary path where
`aclocal` looks for macros. The user may also override the default on
the command line.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_warning_default_aclocaldir.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_warning_default_aclocaldir.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_warning_default_aclocaldir.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
